Server report noter:

Windows 2003 servers:
	Domain Controller, 
	Web Server, 
	File Server 
	server for backup.  

Naming convention:
	File server: FILE-MEM1-2K3
	Naming convention must be explained in bullet form 
	and used for other servers.
	
Domain controller:
	DNS service
	DHCP service
	
File server: 
	allocate only a 10 GB dynamic allocated hard disk for the operating system. 
	create a partition with a size of 6 GB - means 4 GB has to be left unformatted.
	create two equal sized mirror-set of disks
		one mirror-set of disks to the Sales department 
		one mirror-set of disks to the Operation department.  
		Use four disks with a size of 3 GB 
		OR by using two disks with a size of 6 GB depended of the mirror solution you choose to configure – describe and substantiate. 
		
Organisation structure:
	Sales department
		Sales Assistants 
		Sales Managers 
	Operation department
		Operation Assistants
		Operation Managers
		
Based on organisation:
	Define users
	Define groups
	Define simple group strategy
		Assign permissions
		Provice access to folders
	create an OU (examples on-line)structure (configured on the DC) reflecting the company’s organization 
	Make Visio diagram of the OU structure
	Define folders needed for the users and departments.
		Allocate a private folder to each user account
		All folders are deployed on the file server.
		Before the deployment you have prepare a folder plan done as a Visio diagram. 
		Elaborate a permission plan (a table) where you configure the need for permissions for every individual user type and department.
			Don’t forget to consider or to reflect over the need of permission across departments.
			Substantiate your reflections in the report. 

Backup server:
	Daily backup during midnight from Monday – Friday
	
Web server 
	Configure configure a very simple web page (HTML document). 
	On the Web server you have to enable the FTP service. 
	Configure an Alias (CNAME) resource record on the DNS server. 
	
Planning:
	Definitions 
	Descriptions 
	Configurations 
	Substantiate the reflections the choices are based on. 

Task plan: 
	Naming convention for OU’s, servers, user accounts, groups, folders etc.
	Planning OU structure and folder structure
	IP addresses and address pool related to resources you define – Static contra dynamic  IP addresses 
	Which services / server roles do you need on the particular servers
	What do you need of hard disks, disk controllers etc.
	Permission plan – Create a table
	Test scenarios – Define how you test your server environment and access to folders
	Elaboration of a deployment plan
	Etc. 
	
NOTE: A deployment plan is a plan with configurations listed in the order they have to be executed.   
 And don’t forget to deploy an XP client. Otherwise you will not be able to execute tests. 

